Add a conceptual introduction to Beams (#66155)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/agentic-identity-framework/secure-agent-environment.mdx

---
title: Secure Agent Environment
description: Provides architectural principles for isolating agentic workloads in order to manage agentic identity.
tags:
  - conceptual
  - ai
---

An AI agent running on a local workstation can read any credentials available to
it, giving it permissions to perform any operations the user can, and in the
user's name. As with all agent activity, the way agents use credentials to
access infrastructure is non-deterministic. To run AI agents without unintended
damage, your system needs to incorporate security as a first principle.

The Teleport Agentic Identity framework introduces the recommended approach to
securely running agentic workloads, the **secure agent environment**. In this
approach, security is built into the system. AI agents have a limited range of
operations they are allowed to complete, with each operation subject to auditing
and access controls. 

The implementation of a secure agent environment, [Teleport

> Beams](../beams/beams.mdx), is built on Teleport's foundation of authentication

Reviewer: I'm not sure how I feel about describing beams as a reference implementation of the agentic identity framework.

To me, beams uses several of the features of the framework, but I wouldn't go so far as to model the framework as an interface and beams as the implementation.

Happy to be wrong here if we've already decided as an org that this is how we want to position beams.

Author: I'm happy to change the wording here. What do you think about positioning, @kurktchiev ?

Reviewer 2: Most of the things that go green on the Framework are either directly tied to Beams or coming out as implementation details. We have been discussing the framework from the beams perspective for that reason. That and it adds actual credibility to the framework itself. With that said, the framework itself is mainly something more of a guide/guidance so I do not see the harm in pointing to Beams to be able to say "this is what you can build with the legos we provide you".

Author: I've suggested an alternative wording in my latest push.

signed identities with certificate-based access controls. With Beams as an
extension of Teleport's existing capabilities, security is built into AI
infrastructure from the bottom up.

## A multi-layered approach

The secure agentic environment builds security into the system, rather than
bolting it on to an existing system, with a multi-layered approach. Each layer
takes advantage of features of the layer below.

The layers are:

- **Sandboxing:** Untrusted code is isolated and ephemeral, so there is minimal
  risk that it will interface with systems it is not supposed to.
- **Identity:** Each component of the system, including the end user, the
  agent's execution environment, and the agentic workload to execute, can
  prove itself to the system as a known, trusted subject.
- **Access controls:** Encoded in the identity is a list of operations and
  resources that the identity has access to, and the system checks access before
  allowing any operation to take place.
- **Audit:** Access controls associate each operation with an identity, allowing
  the system to construct logs of which identities performed which operations at
  different times.

> Each layer requires the one below. Without sandboxing, the agentic workload can

Reviewer: We already mentioned that each layer takes advantage of the layers below, so this feels a little redundant.

environment can check whether the agentic workload can operate on them before
allowing those operations.

## Audit

The final layer of the secure agent environment is **auditing**. Auditing allows
administrators to track the operations that an AI agent has performed in a
system so they can identify potential threats and investigate security breaches.

In the secure agent environment, sandboxing, identity, and access controls make
auditing a natural next step. Since an AI agent must route its connections to
external infrastructure through components of the system that enforce access
controls, these parts of the system already are aware of the agent's identity
and the operations it is attempting. An auditing system only needs to emit
telemetry that includes this information.

## Reference implementation

Teleport has implemented the secure agent environment in Teleport Beams. Beams
allows you to run agentic workloads securely on Teleport-managed infrastructure.
A beam is a remote environment for running an untrusted workload, designed for
AI agents. Each beam has the following components, which correspond to the
layers of the secure agent environment.

> ### Sandboxing

Reviewer 2: same as the other side, lets keep implementation detail out `microVM` should be plenty fine here

A beam runs on a Firecracker virtual machine with a time to live of under 24

> hours. An instance of `tbot` runs on the virtual machine. The `tbot` instance

Reviewer 2: links to what `tbot` is?

> runs Teleport VNet, which sets up a TUN interface on the VM that intercepts all

Reviewer 2: links to what `VNet` is

---
title: Secure Agent Environment
description: Provides architectural principles for isolating agentic workloads in order to manage agentic identity.
tags:
  - conceptual
  - ai
---

An AI agent running on a local workstation can read any credentials available to
it, giving it permissions to perform any operations the user can, and in the
user's name. As with all agent activity, the way agents use credentials to

> access infrastructure is indeterministic. To run AI agents without unintended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
access infrastructure is non-deterministic. To run AI agents without unintended
``` 

Perhaps?

Author: As far as I know, both of these mean the same thing, but if we're standardizing on "non-deterministic", that's okay for me as long as we're consistent.

If every component of the system already has an identity, the system can encode
in each identity the permissions each component has to interact with other
components. Since end users have identities as well, the system can check
whether the end user has permissions to manage agentic workloads before running
them in the secure environment. In addition, infrastructure components in the
environment can check whether the agentic workload can operate on them before
allowing those operations.

## Audit

The final layer of the secure agent environment is **auditing**. Auditing allows
administrators to track the operations that an AI agent has performed in a
system so they can identify potential threats and investigate security breaches.

In the secure agent environment, sandboxing, identity, and access controls make
auditing a natural next step. Since an AI agent must route its connections to
external infrastructure through components of the system that enforce access
controls, these parts of the system already are aware of the agent's identity
and the operations it is attempting. An auditing system only needs to emit
telemetry that includes this information.

> ## Reference implementation

Reviewer: I don't know if we should provide details on how beams works in two places.

Can we link to the beams landing page from here instead?

Author: The details in the conceptual introduction were phrased in terms of the framework laid out in that guide, rather than as a general architectural reference. At the same time, a lot of that section refers to functionality that won't be available for awhile, so it makes sense to remove it. We can work these details back in, in `beams.mdx`, at a later date.

environment can check whether the agentic workload can operate on them before
allowing those operations.

## Audit

The final layer of the secure agent environment is **auditing**. Auditing allows
administrators to track the operations that an AI agent has performed in a
system so they can identify potential threats and investigate security breaches.

In the secure agent environment, sandboxing, identity, and access controls make
auditing a natural next step. Since an AI agent must route its connections to
external infrastructure through components of the system that enforce access
controls, these parts of the system already are aware of the agent's identity
and the operations it is attempting. An auditing system only needs to emit
telemetry that includes this information.

## Reference implementation

Teleport has implemented the secure agent environment in Teleport Beams. Beams
allows you to run agentic workloads securely on Teleport-managed infrastructure.
A beam is a remote environment for running an untrusted workload, designed for
AI agents. Each beam has the following components, which correspond to the
layers of the secure agent environment.

### Sandboxing

> A beam runs on a microVM with a time to live of under 24 hours. An instance of

Reviewer 2: sorry i missed the 24h pice in the first go around. 24h is just current implementation detail. Lets say something like `A beam runs on a microVM with a defined Time To Live (TTL).` this way when we enable long running agents we dont miss this and have confusion

Author: Thanks, fixed in [1b6f8b4](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/66155/commits/1b6f8b47effb157f33488c361212d19e1142cb66)
